Revolving Dollar
================

*Exploring the flow of money from lobbyists to politicians.*

Last year, US$3.28 billion was spent on lobbying--more than double the amount
spent just 15 years ago, US$1.44 billion in 1998 (opensecrets.org). There are
currently over 12,000 lobbyists in Washington. Lobbying has played an important
democratic function in US society since the founding of this country. Written
into the constitution it ties into your right to petition the government.

At the most basic level, lobbying is the act of persuading someone with more
decision-making power in a particular situation to take a particular course of
action.

Lobbying is done by groups ranging from Amnesty International and Greenpeace, to
Exxon Mobile and Goldman Sachs. It’s done by nonprofits and megaprofits alike,
in promotion of non-partisan issues to polarizing campaigns.

The money has gotten so big that the gray area between what’s influencing an
issue and what’s buying a vote isn’t always clear. Scandals date back to the
1870s, and to the construction of the transcontinental railroad to today’s Jack
Abramoff Indian Casino scandal. Scandals know both sides of the aisle--engulfing
even high profile, well-respected representatives such as Maxine Waters in the
banking scandal of 2010. At the same time, lobbying is still a way to empower
groups that have been traditionally left out of our political process. The
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, for example, filed
suits in state and federal courts in the 1950s to challenge segregation laws.The
constitution protects lobbying as the right to “petition the government for
redress of a grievance.”

The sheer scope of lobbying today creates the need for a way to better track its
influence and provide greater transparency into a process that often lives out
of the public eye. We aim to be your eye into this complex and opaque web of
influence. Is money playing a part in the political decisions that impact your
life? How much? From whom? Into whose pockets? We give you the information. You
decide.
